[DOC] Add documentation on Update Notifications (#91)
seqan/sharg-parser: doc/about/update_notifications/index.md

# Update Notifications {#about_update_notifications}

[TOC]

Outdated software is a huge issue in scientific workflows. Especially when the software is not part of the packaging
provided by the operating system, it tends to be installed once and never updated.

We provide update notifications as a convenient service to app users so that they immediately see when a new version is
available. When we infer that an application is being run by its developer, we additionally remind them to keep their

> checkout of the Sharg library up-to-date. This ensures that new features arrive at app developers faster, applications have fewer bugs, and we receive fewer bug reports on outdated versions.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
checkout of the Sharg library up-to-date. This ensures that new features arrive at app developers faster, applications
have fewer bugs, and we receive fewer bug reports on outdated versions.

```

## How it works

Upon starting an application using the `sharg::argument_parser`, it is determined whether the app was built in release
mode (we assume a user is running it) or in debug mode (we assume the developer is running it).

We then send a web-request to our server with the following information:

 * The application name
 * The application version
 * The Sharg version that the application was built with
 * The operating system type (Linux, macOS, Windows, or BSD)
 * The CPU type (32 or 64bit)

However, we send at most one request per day [we keep track of this by saving a timestamp to `~/.config/seqan/app_name`].

> We inform the user about available updates, if a newer app version is registered in our database (or can be automatically determined).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We inform the user about available updates, if a newer app version is registered in our database (or can be
automatically determined).
```

We inform the developer about new Sharg versions, if the app is running in debug mode.
Additionally, we recommend registering your app with us (support@seqan.de).

## Privacy Implications

Only the information listed above is transmitted; no data is gathered about the usage of the app, and, of course, no

> information regarding your input/output files is transmitted. All our code is open source, and hence this can be verified at any time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information regarding your input/output files is transmitted. All our code is open source, and hence this can be
verified at any time.
```

The server does a simple form of non-personalised data aggregation that gives us a better overview of which apps are

> most commonly used and how well new Sharg versions are picked up. This helps the [SeqAn project](https://www.seqan.de)  a lot, for example, in acquiring funding. The web server that receives the requests currently logs IP addresses as part of its standard behaviour. However, we are working on removing this behaviour.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
most commonly used and how well new Sharg versions are picked up. This helps the [SeqAn project](https://www.seqan.de)
a lot, for example, in acquiring funding. The web server that receives the requests currently logs IP addresses as 
part of its standard behaviour. However, we are working on removing this behaviour.

```

We may publish aggregated and anonymised usage data irregularly, but the original data is never shared with a third
party.

## How to turn it on/off

You are asked about your preference regarding the version check the first time you run an application.
You may choose to always or never perform checks, or be asked every time.
Furthermore, you can specify whether you want to perform the check regardless of any previous choice.
To perform this, pass `--version-check 0` (no check) or `--version-check 1` (run check) as argument to your program.

> Users may opt out of the version check globally, i.e., for all apps on their computer, by setting the environment variable `SHARG_NO_VERSION_CHECK` to any value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users may opt out of the version check globally, i.e., for all apps on their computer, by setting the environment
variable `SHARG_NO_VERSION_CHECK` to any value.
```

available. When we assume that an application is being run by its developer we nag the developer to also keep their
checkout of the Sharg library up-to-date. This ensures new features get to app developers faster, applications have
fewer bugs, and we receive fewer bug reports on outdated versions.

## How it works

Upon starting an application using the `sharg::argument_parser`, it is determined whether the app is built in release
mode (we assume a user is running it) or in debug mode (we assume the developer is running it).

We then send a web-request to our server with the following:

 * The application name and its version
 * The Sharg version that the application was built with
 * The operating system type (Linux, macOS, Windows or BSD)
 * The CPU type (32 or 64bit)

But we send at most one request per day [we keep track of this by saving a timestamp to `.config/seqan/app_name`].

If a newer app version is registered in our database (or can be automatically determined), we inform the user about it.
If the app is running in debug mode and the Sharg version is outdated, we assume the user is the app developer and

> inform them about it.

Reviewer 2: Do we check for newer versions even in debug mode? I'd expected that it is being first checked if it is debug or release. and only if it is release the internet is being contacted.

Author: No if it is in debug mode, we assume the developer is working on the app and we contact the internet to inform the developer of new seqan3 versions.

Reviewer 2: I am assuming you meant "sharg versions" not "seqan3 versions". But yes I see.

I have checked the code. We also remind the developer(debug mode) to register a new version of his app if the app registered on the server is outdated.

Author: > I am assuming you meant "sharg versions" not "seqan3 versions". But yes I see.

Yes! sorry.

```suggestion
inform them about it. Additionally, we recommend to register your app with us 
if it is not already registered (support@seqan.de).
```

How about this?

Reviewer 2: Yes, that is good!

## Privacy Implications

Only the information listed above is transmitted; no data is gathered about the usage of the app, and, of course, no
information regarding your input/output files is transmitted. All our code is open source so this can be verified at
any time.

The server does a simple form of non-personalised data aggregation that gives us a better overview of which apps are

> most commonly used and how well new Sharg versions are picked up. This helps the SeqAn project a lot, also in acquiring

Reviewer 2: I think there should be a link to seqan here.

Author: ```suggestion
most commonly used and how well new Sharg versions are picked up. This helps the SeqAn project (www.seqan.de) a lot, also in acquiring
```

> # Update Notifications {#about_update_notifications}
> 
> [TOC]
> 
> Outdated software is a huge issue in science workflows. Especially when the software is not part of the packaging
> provided by the operating system, it tends to be installed once and never updated.
> 
> We provide update notifications as a convenient service to app users so that they immediately see when a new version is
> available. When we assume that an application is being run by its developer we nag the developer to also keep their
> checkout of the Sharg library up-to-date. This ensures new features get to app developers faster, applications have
> fewer bugs, and we receive fewer bug reports on outdated versions.
> 
> ## How it works
> 
> Upon starting an application using the `sharg::argument_parser`, it is determined whether the app is built in release
> mode (we assume a user is running it) or in debug mode (we assume the developer is running it).
> 
> We then send a web-request to our server with the following:
> 
>  * The application name and its version
>  * The Sharg version that the application was built with
>  * The operating system type (Linux, macOS, Windows or BSD)
>  * The CPU type (32 or 64bit)
> 
> But we send at most one request per day [we keep track of this by saving a timestamp to `.config/seqan/app_name`].
> 
> If a newer app version is registered in our database (or can be automatically determined), we inform the user about it.
> If the app is running in debug mode and the Sharg version is outdated, we assume the user is the app developer and
> inform them about it.
> 
> ## Privacy Implications
> 
> Only the information listed above is transmitted; no data is gathered about the usage of the app, and, of course, no
> information regarding your input/output files is transmitted. All our code is open source so this can be verified at
> any time.
> 
> The server does a simple form of non-personalised data aggregation that gives us a better overview of which apps are
> most commonly used and how well new Sharg versions are picked up. This helps the SeqAn project a lot, also in acquiring
> funding. The web-server that receives the requests currently logs IP-Addresses as part of its standard behaviour,
> however, we are working on removing this behaviour.
> 
> We may publish aggregated and anonymised usage data irregularly, but the original data is never shared with a third
> party.
> 
> ## How to turn it on/off
> 
> You are asked about your preference in regard to the version check the first time you run an application.
> You may choose to always or never perform checks, or be asked every time.
> You can also specify that you don't (or do) want to perform the check (regardless of any previous choice)
> by passing this argument to your program: `--version-check 0` (or `1` to activate it).
> 
> Users may opt-out of the version check globally (for all apps on their computer) by setting the environment variable
> `SEQAN3_NO_VERSION_CHECK`.
> 
> Application developers may opt-out of the version check for their app permanently (independent of user choice) by
> passing `seqan3::update_notifications::off` as the fourth argument to seqan3::argument_parser.
> See the respective API documentation of the `sharg::argument_parser`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Update Notifications {#about_update_notifications}

[TOC]

Outdated software is a huge issue in scientific workflows. Especially when the software is not part of the packaging
provided by the operating system, it tends to be installed once and never updated.

We provide update notifications as a convenient service to app users so that they immediately see when a new version is
available. When we see that an application is executed by its developer, we nag them to also keep their
Sharg dependency up-to-date. This ensures new features get to app developers faster, applications have
fewer bugs, and we receive fewer bug reports on outdated versions.

## How it works

Upon starting an application using the `sharg::argument_parser`, it is determined whether the app is built in release
mode (we assume a user is running it) or in debug mode (we assume the developer is running it).

We then send a web request to our server with the following information:

 * The application name and its version
 * The Sharg version that the application is using
 * The operating system (Linux, macOS, Windows, or BSD)
 * The CPU type (32 or 64bit)

However, we send at most one request per day [we keep track of this by saving a timestamp to `.config/seqan/app_name`].

If a newer app version is registered in our database (or can be automatically determined), we inform the user about it.
If the app is running in debug mode and the Sharg version is outdated, we assume the user is the app developer and
inform them about it.

## Privacy Implications

Only the information listed above is transmitted; no data about the usage of the app is gathered, and, of course, no
information regarding your input/output files is transmitted. All our code is open source, so this can be verified at
any time.

The server does a simple form of non-personalised data aggregation that gives us a better overview of which apps are
most commonly used and how well new Sharg versions are picked up. This helps the SeqAn project a lot, also in acquiring
funding. The web server that receives the requests currently logs IP-Addresses as part of its standard behaviour,
however, we are working on removing this behaviour.

We may publish aggregated and anonymised usage data irregularly, but the original data is never shared with a third
party.

## How to turn it on/off

The first time you run an application, you are asked for your preference regarding the version check.
You may choose to always or never perform checks, or be asked every time.
You can also specify that you do not (or do) want to perform the check (regardless of any previous choice)
by passing this argument to your program: `--version-check 0` (or `1` to activate it).

Users may opt out of the version check globally (for all apps on their computer) by setting the environment variable
`SEQAN3_NO_VERSION_CHECK` to any non-empty value.

Application developers may opt out of the version check for their app permanently (independent of user choice) by
passing `sharg::update_notifications::off` to the sharg::argument_parser.
See the respective API documentation of the `sharg::argument_parser`.
```

Reviewer: Is `.config/seqan/app_name` still correct?

# Update Notifications {#about_update_notifications}

[TOC]

> Outdated software is a huge issue in science workflows. Especially when the software is not part of the packaging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outdated software is a huge issue in scientific workflows. Especially when the software is not part of the packaging
```

provided by the operating system, it tends to be installed once and never updated.

We provide update notifications as a convenient service to app users so that they immediately see when a new version is

> available. When we assume that an application is being run by its developer we nag the developer to also keep their
> checkout of the Sharg library up-to-date. This ensures new features get to app developers faster, applications have
> fewer bugs, and we receive fewer bug reports on outdated versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available. When we infer that an application is being run by its developer, we additionally remind them to keep their
checkout of the Sharg library up-to-date. This ensures that new features arrive at app developers faster, applications have fewer bugs, and we receive fewer bug reports on outdated versions.
```

## How it works

> Upon starting an application using the `sharg::argument_parser`, it is determined whether the app is built in release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon starting an application using the `sharg::argument_parser`, it is determined whether the app was built in release
```

mode (we assume a user is running it) or in debug mode (we assume the developer is running it).

> We then send a web-request to our server with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then send a web-request to our server with the following information:
```

>  * The application name and its version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The application name
 * The application version
```

 * The Sharg version that the application was built with

>  * The operating system type (Linux, macOS, Windows or BSD)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The operating system type (Linux, macOS, Windows, or BSD)
```

 * The CPU type (32 or 64bit)

> But we send at most one request per day [we keep track of this by saving a timestamp to `.config/seqan/app_name`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we send at most one request per day [we keep track of this by saving a timestamp to `.config/seqan/app_name`].
```

> But we send at most one request per day [we keep track of this by saving a timestamp to `.config/seqan/app_name`].

Reviewer: What is `.config/seqan/app_name` relative to?

Author: To the home directory. I altered it respectively.

> If a newer app version is registered in our database (or can be automatically determined), we inform the user about it.
> If the app is running in debug mode and the Sharg version is outdated, we assume the user is the app developer and
> inform them about it. Additionally, we recommend to register your app with us 
> if it is not already registered (support@seqan.de).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We inform the user about available updates, if a newer app version is registered in our database (or can be automatically determined).
We inform the developer about new Sharg versions, if the app is running in debug mode.
Additionally, we recommend registering your app with us (support@seqan.de).
```

## Privacy Implications

Only the information listed above is transmitted; no data is gathered about the usage of the app, and, of course, no

> information regarding your input/output files is transmitted. All our code is open source so this can be verified at
> any time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information regarding your input/output files is transmitted. All our code is open source, and hence this can be verified at any time.
```

The server does a simple form of non-personalised data aggregation that gives us a better overview of which apps are

> most commonly used and how well new Sharg versions are picked up. This helps the SeqAn project (www.seqan.de) a lot, also in acquiring
> funding. The web-server that receives the requests currently logs IP-Addresses as part of its standard behaviour,
> however, we are working on removing this behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
most commonly used and how well new Sharg versions are picked up. This helps the [SeqAn project](https://www.seqan.de)  a lot, for example, in acquiring funding. The web server that receives the requests currently logs IP addresses as part of its standard behaviour. However, we are working on removing this behaviour.
```

We may publish aggregated and anonymised usage data irregularly, but the original data is never shared with a third
party.

## How to turn it on/off

> You are asked about your preference in regard to the version check the first time you run an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are asked about your preference regarding the version check the first time you run an application.
```

You may choose to always or never perform checks, or be asked every time.

> You can also specify that you don't (or do) want to perform the check (regardless of any previous choice)
> by passing this argument to your program: `--version-check 0` (or `1` to activate it).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, you can specify whether you want to perform the check regardless of any previous choice.
To perform this, pass `--version-check 0` (no check) or `--version-check 1` (run check) as argument to your program.
```

> Users may opt-out of the version check globally (for all apps on their computer) by setting the environment variable
> `SEQAN3_NO_VERSION_CHECK`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users may opt out of the version check globally, i.e., for all apps on their computer, by setting the environment variable `SHARG_NO_VERSION_CHECK` to any value.
```

It's `SHARG_NO_VERSION_CHECK` now :D

I would add `any value`, because:

```bash
$ unset FOO
$ if [[ -z "${FOO}" ]]; then echo "is not set"; else echo "is set"; fi
  is not set

$ export FOO
$ if [[ -z "${FOO}" ]]; then echo "is not set"; else echo "is set"; fi
  is not set

$ export FOO=
$ if [[ -z "${FOO}" ]]; then echo "is not set"; else echo "is set"; fi
  is not set

$ export FOO=1
$ if [[ -z "${FOO}" ]]; then echo "is not set"; else echo "is set"; fi
  is set

$ export FOO=0
$ if [[ -z "${FOO}" ]]; then echo "is not set"; else echo "is set"; fi
  is set
```

The value itself doesn't matter

> Application developers may opt-out of the version check for their app permanently (independent of user choice) by
> passing `seqan3::update_notifications::off` as the fourth argument to seqan3::argument_parser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application developers may opt out of the version check for their app permanently (independent of user choice) by
passing `sharg::update_notifications::off` as the fourth argument to sharg::argument_parser.
```
